ParticleFilter/Readme.md, before:

1) using landmarks, where we exactly know where the landmark is on the map
2) using raycasted lidar detections in a maze-like map



- robot odometry to propagate the motion of each particle:
    - (previous particle state) + (noisy_ctrl_input * motion_model = dead_reckon) + exploration_noise
- assign weights to particles based on how closely the current range sensor measurements match with
the expected range sensor measurements of the particles.
    - expected range measurements of the particles are measured using the propagated particle state + map of the environment
- particle distribution is resampled based on the weights of the particles
    - increased likelihood of selection given to particles with higher weights

- At the end, determine the robot state estimate by taking average of all particle states.

* when the robot observes the landmarks in robot frame with the sensor:
    1) Find all landmarks within the particle's range, using the map info and particle's predicted state (obtained with motion model).
    2) use the particle's "predicted state" , to transform the robot-frame landmark observation to map-frame landmark observation.
    3) since the particle is in map frame, it already has a view of which landmarks can be observed from that state,
    and most importantly, #the unique id of the landmark#
    - associate the observed landmark (1) to predicted landmark (2) by nearest neighbor. (since both are in map frame now)
        - this will also assign a landmark id to the observed landmark. --> main purpose: giving map landmark id to observation
    - each observation will contribute to the weight of that particle:
    - for obs in observations:
        - weight_particle *= MLE(distance(particle_landmark_predict, robot_landmark_observed)). 
            a) multivariate gaussian dist
            b) w = w * gauss_likelihood(dz, math.sqrt(Q=0.2**2)) --> Q=uncertainty of landmark
    - right after weight update, resample the particles


* next stage: pole detection from the lidar pointcloud to derive the landmarks

Commit message:

adding reset strategy to particle filter

ParticleFilter/Readme.md, after:

# Particle Filter
Probability distribution through samples (particles)
Just like Kalman filter, uses prediction and correction.
Prediction: E.g. (motion model and control commands) + exploration noise
    This noise is to account for the wrongness of the motion model and control input, and basically randomly exploring the vicinity to correct for such errors.
Correction: e.g. sensor measurements. Given that my robot is where this particle is, how likely is it to obtain particle's observation, given the robot's observation.
Based on this likeliness, the particle receives an importance weight.
Resampling = survival of the fittest.


## Recovery
It is not guaranteed that the particle filter will converge to the global solution, nor recover from global localization failures. After some duration, particles converge around a single pose and unable to recover if this happens to be incorrect. As particle filter is a stochastic algorithm, it may accidentally discard the correct particles during the resampling step. This is most likely when number of particles are small, or when the map is relatively large.

1) using landmarks, where we exactly know where the landmark is on the map
2) using raycasted lidar detections in a maze-like map



- robot odometry to propagate the motion of each particle:
    - (previous particle state) + (noisy_ctrl_input * motion_model = dead_reckon) + exploration_noise
- assign weights to particles based on how closely the current range sensor measurements match with
the expected range sensor measurements of the particles.
    - expected range measurements of the particles are measured using the propagated particle state + map of the environment
- particle distribution is resampled based on the weights of the particles
    - increased likelihood of selection given to particles with higher weights

- At the end, determine the robot state estimate by taking average of all particle states.

* when the robot observes the landmarks in robot frame with the sensor:
    1) Find all landmarks within the particle's range, using the map info and particle's predicted state (obtained with motion model).
    2) use the particle's "predicted state" , to transform the robot-frame landmark observation to map-frame landmark observation.
    3) since the particle is in map frame, it already has a view of which landmarks can be observed from that state,
    and most importantly, #the unique id of the landmark#
    - associate the observed landmark (1) to predicted landmark (2) by nearest neighbor. (since both are in map frame now)
        - this will also assign a landmark id to the observed landmark. --> main purpose: giving map landmark id to observation
    - each observation will contribute to the weight of that particle:
    - for obs in observations:
        - weight_particle *= MLE(distance(particle_landmark_predict, robot_landmark_observed)). 
            a) multivariate gaussian dist
            b) w = w * gauss_likelihood(dz, math.sqrt(Q=0.2**2)) --> Q=uncertainty of landmark
    - right after weight update, resample the particles


* next stage: pole detection from the lidar pointcloud to derive the landmarks
