VisualOdometry/Indirect/tracking/README.md, before:

# Visual Odometry Via Sparse Optical Flow Corner Feature Tracking

The goal of optical flow is to generate a 2D flow field that describes how the pixels in the image are moving in time to create a representation of the dynamics of the scene.

Optical flow has 2 main assumptions:
- Displacement of pixels (`dx` & `dy`) and time step (`dt`) are small 
- The brightness of an entity in pixel space in 2 successive frames remains constant over time. (reasonable given 1st assumption)

These assumptions allow simplification of higher order terms in Taylor series:

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goksanisil23/lazy_minimal_robotics/main/VisualOdometry/Indirect/tracking/resources/taylor_1.png" width=50% height=50%>

Since we assume the brightness remains constant over small dt for the point of interest, we can further simplify the notation as:

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goksanisil23/lazy_minimal_robotics/main/VisualOdometry/Indirect/tracking/resources/optical_flow_constraint.png" width=50% height=50%>

where `Ix, Iy, It` are the changes in the intensity in x,y directions and in time, that can be computed with finite differences:

`Ix = 1/4 * {I(x+1,y,t) + I(x+1,y+1,t) + I(x+1,y,t+1) - I(x+1,y+1,t+1)} - 1/4 * {I(x,y,t) + I(x,y+1,t) + I(x,y,t+1) - I(x,y+1,t+1)}`

Optical flow by nature is an underconstrained problem, since 1 constraint equation above has 2 unknowns: `u & v`

To overcome this, Lukas-Kanade approach assumes all pixels *within a small neighborhood* (3x3 window) have the same motion field, which gives a number of equations for unknowns u & v, that can be solved by least-squares.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goksanisil23/lazy_minimal_robotics/main/VisualOdometry/Indirect/tracking/resources/lucas_kanade_matrix.png" width=30% height=50%><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goksanisil23/lazy_minimal_robotics/main/VisualOdometry/Indirect/tracking/resources/lukas_kanade_solution.png" width=30% height=50%>

Note that for optical flow to work, `A^T*A` must be well-conditioned:
- Both eigen values are not too small: Meaning no change in intensities of pixels over time: e.g. textureless sky
- One eigenvalue is not too dominant over the other: Corresponds to edge-like structures. Cannot know if edge is moving diagonally or perpendicularly.

**What happens when motion is large?**
In the case of large motion, the main optical flow constraint is not satisfied anymore. To overcome this, a resolution pyramid is used to start with a coarse estimation and propagate to finer estimations. The idea is that, a large motion of a scene point in high res image, will be smaller if the same scene is represented in a lower res image (since there arent as many pixels). Therefore, we start with estimating the optical flow in the smallest resolution image pairs (image[t], image[t+1]), and we use the OF result of the previous step to propagate the optical flow to higher resolution images.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goksanisil23/lazy_minimal_robotics/main/VisualOdometry/Indirect/tracking/resources/klt_pyramid.png" width=70% height=50%>


## Usage in Motion Estimation
Optical flow can be utilized to keep track of the image features between successive frames, as an alternative to re-running feature extraction and feature matching in each frame.


The approach in this implementation is as follows:
- Pick the best N corners in the image via Shi-Thomasi corner detector.
- Via KLT optical flow, get the coordinates of these features in the next frame.
    - To verify the tracked points, re-run optical flow in reverse order with the result of the forward optical flow and check if the result matches with the original feature point's coordinates.
    - Eliminate the keypoints that do not match.
- use PnP with RANSAC to solve for relative pose, by utilizing 2D-3D correspondences. 3D world-points of the tracked features are obtained from the depth camera.
- When the number of tracked features fall below a threshold number, re-trigger the corner detector.
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goksanisil23/lazy_minimal_robotics/main/VisualOdometry/Indirect/tracking/resources/viso_oflow.gif" width=100% height=50%>

Commit message:

adding optical flow tracker with gauss newton

VisualOdometry/Indirect/tracking/README.md, after:

# Visual Odometry Via Sparse Optical Flow Corner Feature Tracking
*The main difference of this method compared to VO via feature matching is that, after calculating the keypoints in an image, instead of computing the descriptors and doing descriptor matching, keypoints are tracked from k to k+1 via optical flow.*

The goal of optical flow is to generate a 2D flow field that describes how the pixels in the image are moving in time to create a representation of the dynamics of the scene.

Optical flow has 2 main assumptions:
- Displacement of pixels (`dx` & `dy`) and time step (`dt`) are small 
- The brightness of an entity in pixel space in 2 successive frames remains constant over time. (reasonable given 1st assumption)

These assumptions allow simplification of higher order terms in Taylor series:

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goksanisil23/lazy_minimal_robotics/main/VisualOdometry/Indirect/tracking/resources/taylor_1.png" width=50% height=50%>

Since we assume the brightness remains constant over small dt for the point of interest, we can further simplify the notation as:

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goksanisil23/lazy_minimal_robotics/main/VisualOdometry/Indirect/tracking/resources/optical_flow_constraint.png" width=50% height=50%>

where `u = dx/dt, v=dy/dt` is the optical flow and `Ix, Iy, It` are the changes in the intensity in x,y directions and in time, that can be computed with finite differences:

`Ix = 1/4 * {I(x+1,y,t) + I(x+1,y+1,t) + I(x+1,y,t+1) - I(x+1,y+1,t+1)} - 1/4 * {I(x,y,t) + I(x,y+1,t) + I(x,y,t+1) - I(x,y+1,t+1)}`

Optical flow by nature is an underconstrained problem, since 1 constraint equation above has 2 unknowns: `u & v`

To overcome this, Lukas-Kanade approach assumes all pixels *within a small neighborhood* (3x3 window) have the same motion field, which gives a number of equations for unknowns u & v, that can be solved by least-squares.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goksanisil23/lazy_minimal_robotics/main/VisualOdometry/Indirect/tracking/resources/lucas_kanade_matrix.png" width=30% height=50%><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goksanisil23/lazy_minimal_robotics/main/VisualOdometry/Indirect/tracking/resources/lukas_kanade_solution.png" width=30% height=50%>

Note that for optical flow to work, `A^T*A` must be well-conditioned:
- Both eigen values are not too small: Meaning no change in intensities of pixels over time: e.g. textureless sky
- One eigenvalue is not too dominant over the other: Corresponds to edge-like structures. Cannot know if edge is moving diagonally or perpendicularly.

**What happens when motion is large?**
In the case of large motion, the main optical flow constraint is not satisfied anymore. To overcome this, a resolution pyramid is used to start with a coarse estimation and propagate to finer estimations. The idea is that, a large motion of a scene point in high res image, will be smaller if the same scene is represented in a lower res image (since there arent as many pixels). Therefore, we start with estimating the optical flow in the smallest resolution image pairs (image[t], image[t+1]), and we use the OF result of the previous step to propagate the optical flow to higher resolution images.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goksanisil23/lazy_minimal_robotics/main/VisualOdometry/Indirect/tracking/resources/klt_pyramid.png" width=70% height=50%>


## Usage in Motion Estimation
Optical flow can be utilized to keep track of the image features between successive frames, as an alternative to re-running feature extraction and feature matching in each frame.


The approach in this implementation is as follows:
- Pick the best N corners in the image via Shi-Thomasi corner detector.
- Via KLT optical flow, get the coordinates of these features in the next frame.
    - To verify the tracked points, re-run optical flow in reverse order with the result of the forward optical flow and check if the result matches with the original feature point's coordinates.
    - Eliminate the keypoints that do not match.
- use PnP with RANSAC to solve for relative pose, by utilizing 2D-3D correspondences. 3D world-points of the tracked features are obtained from the depth camera.
- When the number of tracked features fall below a threshold number, re-trigger the corner detector.
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goksanisil23/lazy_minimal_robotics/main/VisualOdometry/Indirect/tracking/resources/viso_oflow.gif" width=100% height=50%>
